This mod is intended to be a magic mod based around binding different metaphysical entities.
It will also have wizard villages and dragons. The dragons aren't necessarily connected to the point of the mod, but are STILL NECESSARY. Because... DRAGONS.

Ores:
* Silver: Found in the same configurations as gold

Vaettir: These are beings which have control over an environment rather than simply being a minecraft entity, though they can also be a physical entity. They primarily are indicated by a sort of enchantment table particle effect around the blocks/mobs they are possessing. Any blocks/mobs that they possess which they move will return to their original positions once they are done attacking. They can be damaged more easily by either silver swords or some other silver tool; normal items will deal far less damaged.
* Landvaettr (Nature): This is a single block in the middle of a tree in a field-type biome which animates the surrounding biome and causes nearby blocks and passive mobs to fly and attack those who try to destroy its terrain. A landvaettr block planted by a player will grow into a tree. The landvaettr will protect the players who have tilled any dirt within its boundaries and planted crops in it; if the crop is harvested it will stop protecting that player. If there is a chest on the landvaettr's land, it will passively harvest and replant the crops and put its drops in the chest.
* Husvaettr (House): This is a single fireplace-like block which can be placed in a generated village house structure and cause the blocks in it to attack any who try to sleep in the house's bed, take from its chests, or destroy its blocks by creating spectral copies of the blocks in the structure as mobs--unless they sacrifice a piece of food or precious item to the fireplace every day. Husvaettir have the passive effect of automatically sorting items in chests and sending chests to pick up dropped items. Additionally, villagers in the house are automatically under its protection: if they are attacked, the husvaettr will attack the attacker regardless of the attacker's standing with it
* Vatnavaettr (Water): This is a single block in a small structure in a region of water which animates the water to attack non-water-mobs which enter it by attempting to drown them by sucking them downward. It can be controlled by tilling it with a silver hoe; the tiller is then its controller and it will protect the tiller as long as they till every three days. Silver also is the only thing that can mine its center block. Vatnavaettir also passively will bring fishing items to any chests placed near their body of water.
* Stormvaettr (Storm): This is an area which has a perpetual storm and will strike lightning bolts at anything which tries to break a block in that zone. In order to control it a fire must be made on its land (this will not aggravate it) and food or a precious item must be sacrificed to the fire each day; from then on it will strike anything dangerous to the player with lightning. The central block which can be used to kill the entity is at the top of a stone obelisk-like pillar.
* Eldvaettr (Fire): This is an entity, looking like a moving block of fire, which is constantly surrounded by a lot of fire; the fires are able to be put out by water but not rain and, if water appears nearby, the fires will shoot fireballs which will vaporize the water; if all fires are put out the entity will die instantly. Additionally, nearby mobs will be attacked by fireballs from the eldvaettr. If a lead is used on the central entity it will follow and protect the leading player and its fire won't burn the player; if attached to a fence post it won't follow but will protect.
* Brennisteinvaettr (Brimstone): This is an entity which animates sections of the nether. It can cause its blocks to fall and will attack nearby mobs not native to the nether by dropping nether blocks on them which do the same damage as anvils. It also will cause lava to shoot fireballs at them. Its center is a cauldron-like block filled with lava; if items are dropped in here that are native to another dimension it will protect the dropper as long as this is performed once per day.
* Endisteinvaettr (Endstone): This entity resides in end islands which aren't the main one. If they are damaged or their chorus plants attacked, they will start opening holes under the damager and trying to drop them into the void. They are controlled by a sort of large flower on the end of one of their purpur plants.
* Skogvaettr (Forest): This entity resides in a forest biome as a particular tree (like a landvaettr) which can cause nearby trees to shoot sticks and leaves at any who try to harm a tree, and causes the trees' leaves to fly off of them and attack as well as causes any passive mobs in the forest to attack threats. It can be appeased by giving bone meal to the central tree once every three days and will protect the player if the player does this.
* Dyrvaettr (Animals): This entity appears as a random form of passive mob, but is surrounded by potion particles. It will take control of random nearby mobs which will follow it in a herd when it moves and spread out when it stops. It will attack any who try to hurt a member of its herd; it will protect any who offer it wheat once per day.
* Manvaettr (Villager): This entity appears as a cleric villager surrounded by potion particles. It takes control of the nearby population of villagers, causing them to act like villagers until a player harms a villager, at which point every villager will attack the player. The entity can be turned to the player's favor by giving it three emeralds per day.
* Daudhvaettr (Death): This entity appears near a place where more than three mobs were killed in under a minute, and appears as one of the killed mobs except with potion particles around it. It will resurrect mobs killed within a day in places nearby and control them in a horde during the night, though it will burn away during the day. It will also resurrect players that were killed as zombies with their armor and items. It will attack all passive entities and players (one target at a time) and try to kill them. It cannot be appeased; killing the entity itself (only with silver) will cause HALF of the resurrected mobs to become regular mobs, their attack targets reset, the OTHER half will vanish, and HALF of the players will turn into regular, armor-less item-less zombies while the other half will vanish (one player has a fifty-fifty chance).
* Draugvaettr (Undead): This entity appears near undead mobs (zombies, skeletons, husks, strays, drowneds, wither skeletons, and zombie pigmen) as an undead mob surrounded by potion particles and will take possession of nearby undead, causing them to follow it in a horde. This entity burns away in daytime and it will attack all passive mobs and players it encounters (one target at a time). Each kill will cause a random new undead to join the horde. They burn in the daytime, even the zombie pigmen. It cannot be appeased; killing the entity itself (only with silver) will cause the undead to become regular undead and cause exactly half to die.
* Endimanvaettr (Endermen): This entity looks like an enderman with blue eyes and spawns endermen near it or takes control of nearby endermen (spawns in the end and in mountains) and causes them to aggressively take blocks and attack all players who look at any of them in a horde. It can be appeased if any of the endermen are given one ghast tear every three days and will then stop picking up blocks aggressively and protect the appeaser
* Svinimanvaettr (Pigmen): This entity looks like a pigman with red eyes and controls a group of pigmen. Like regular pigmen, it is neutral until attacked and attacks in a horde; however, it is notably different in that it also summons nearby random nether mobs to attack as well and joins them with its horde. It can also be appeased with a gold nugget or ingot; the gold nugget will appease it for one day (24000 ticks) and a gold ingot for three, and it will protect its appeasers
* Seidhvaettr (Magic): 
* Vanr (Deity): This is the most unique form of vaettr. It is also customizable. This being essentially is a god. More explained below.

Items:
* Mead of the Vaettr: This is a liquid collected by using a glass bottle on a central vaettr, which does nothing to the vaettr. Cannot be used on a vanir.
* Potion of the Vaettr: This is a potion that, when used on a vaettr's central aspect (as splash, arrow, or lingering; when drunk it just applies wither), will immediately despawn the vaettr and drop a small bottle filled with "soul of the ___vaettr." Hitting any other mob will cause wither to the mob
* Soul of the <Land/Hus/Vatna...>vaettr: This is a bottle filled with the "entity data" of a specific vaettr. If used on the ground, it will spawn the central structure of the vaettr and the vaettr will automatically protect the spawner for ten days before it needs a new sacrifice/offering. A daudhvaettr will not accept a sacrifice.
* 